---
layout: post.html
title: Why do I teach music? 
tags: [Music, Education, Technology, Philisophy]
external: 
    author: Austin Clark
    link:
    source: 
---


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There are numerous answers as to why I choose to make a career for myself  in Music Education; certainly not enough to fit in my writings here.  The main five reasons why I want to be a part of music are:

- I want others to know of the significance of music in their lives. 
- I find joy in seeing and working with students that progress in their study of music. 
- I have a great appreciation for music.
- I wish to advocate for the fine arts in a modern education system.
- I want to further educate myself in regards to music, and music pedagogy.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My earliest involvement with music was when I began to study the trumpet at age 10 at the local middle school.  I remember my twin brother and I, which we did everything together, were discussing which instrument to play.  I strongly wanted to play percussion; my brother strongly wanted to play trumpet.  As I remember it, my mother (being tired of us being indecisive) drove to the local music store and rented out 2 trumpets for my brother and I.  From that point on, I fell in love with the trumpet.  There wasn’t a dull moment in middle school band.  Each day we had new and exciting music to play, things to learn and new friends to be made. To this day, I still socalize with the friends I met in band!  I wasn’t even close to being the star player of the class, in fact, I remember being close to the last chair. Something inside me said, “If I can somehow play the 1st Trumpet part, I’ll be the best trumpet player in the world”. Even though I have played many 1st trumpet parts, I am no where near or ever will be near the best player in the world.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In middle school, the trumpet was the “cool” instrument that all of the popular kids played.  Because of this, the majority of my "popular" crowd decided to quit playing in high school.  There was a day where I too contemplated giving up the trumpet.  Thankfully, I had a wonderful teacher that saw I was going thinking about quitting and gave me encouragement to practice.  In high school, I joined the jazz ensemble, pep band, wind ensemble and the pit orchestra.  There, I “rose the ranks” of the trumpet ladder.  Soon enough, I was selected to be in the Utah All-State Jazz Band (one of five in the state) towards the end of my high school career.  While performing with the band, I hadn’t had any more fun in my entire life.  I loved the music we were playing, the musicians were phenomenal, and I couldn’t be prouder of myself and what I had become.  It was at that moment where I would actually considered a 
career in music. 


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;However, I haven’t always known I was going to pursue in Music Education.   As with maany indivduals, I wanted to keep the family business alive (my father being a podiatrist by profession). Throughout middle school, high school, and part of my undergraduate studies, I was focused on a degree in biology (which would have led to medical school).  I entered college, a few months after my All-State Jazz Band experience, as a Biology Major.  It only took a few months of study for me to become extremely depressed.  I didn’t find any joy in studying biology at all.  I locked myself in my room for hours a day, focused on medical school, and other means of espcaement.  A majority of events, which could be another blog itself, led me to find another major.  More notably, my volunteer work at a local Emergency Room.  There, I witnessed several deaths, suicide attempts, pediatric fatalities, and severe accidents.  I was less than “excited” to volunteer each week.  I could literally feel the sadness and stress weigh on me week after week.  At one point, I felt at the point of giving up completely.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Again, due to the severity of the situation I was in, I do not wish to re-live the trauma that occurred. But after remembering my All-State Jazz Experience, and how much happier I felt there.  It was one of the moments in my life where I felt genuinely happy. Music has great significance in my life it has been there for me when I need it the most.  I would not be alive today without it!  I want music to be there for others as well.   The main reason why I choose a career in music education, is to fill my desire to let students know of the significance of music in their lives. Music has been called "the great escape" because when you are playing/singing/directing music, you aren't thinking about the test you just failed an hour ago, or the credit card you need to pay next week; you are in the present.   I hope to some how give the gift of music to my students. 

> *"Music expresses that which cannot be said and on which it is impossible to be silent."* 
<p>                                                          *- Victor Hugo*<p>
